During the production of this course, JUnit 5 was released.
I wanted to include a brief introduction to JUnit 5 at some
point in this course as it's going to become increasingly
popular in the near future.
I felt this module on using tests as documentation would
be the most appropriate location as, among other changes,
there are several readability enhancements in JUnit 5.
It was back in 2006 when JUnit 4 was released.
Java 5 was the current release at the time.
The biggest change to come with JUnit 4 was allowing the
usage of annotations to mark tests,
which was a big improvement over JUnit 3's way of subclassing test cases,
and then starting every test method with test.
Needless to say,
much has changed in the Java language since the last major release of JUnit.
JUnit 5 uses Java 8 as a baseline, which gives it native support for lambdas.
Indeed,
one of the component projects that eventually became
JUnit 5 was called JUnit Lambda.
There are several other goals in the JUnit 5 project
including having JUnit 5 provide extension points rather
than natively supporting features.
This was to allow for faster evolvability of tested frameworks.
JUnit 5 seeks to improve the ease of writing tests,
as well as the readability, which as mentioned,
is the reason why I'm including this introduction to JUnit 5 in this module.
Finally,
JUnit 5 has been broken into several modules instead
of being packaged as a single JAR.
The three major components of JUnit 5 are,
JUnit Vintage, JUnit Platform, and JUnit Jupiter.
JUnit Vintage is to help with the migration to JUnit 5.
JUnit Vintage maintains many of the package structures and programming model
that is familiar to those who have used JUnit 3 and JUnit 4.
JUnit Platform is where the support for build tools,
like the Maven Surefire plugin discussed in the module on integration testing,
are located.
Finally,
JUnit Jupiter is where the new programming model for JUnit tests is located,
and is what will be used in all the demos for this module, which we will get to shortly.